# 4. Farming for Projects



Note that New Farms are implemented at each Farm Rebalance which are bi-weekly.

There are 3 Options for Farming on Minswap for other Projects. Each Option has different requirements:

1. **Own Token Farm:** for example, if your project token is $XZY, you can enable $XZY/$ADA Liquidity Providers to Farm $XZY. There are **no requirements** to enable this type of Farm. However, due to the high demand to implement this kind of farm, a one-time fixed Fee of 500 ADA is required. \
   \
   The steps therefore to get an Own Token Farm are: \
   \
   **1)** Decide on the amount of tokens you want to put on the farm program and for how long (for example, 0.5% of the total supply for 6 months).\
   \
   **2)** Send the one-time fixed Fee of 500 ADA to the following address: $minswap\
   \
   **3)** Drop a message on the Minswap [Discord](https://discord.gg/ZjB8ZBhkbm) and you will be assisted in the final step.
2. **MIN Farm + Own Token Farm:** this Farming program is for both the Project's Token and MIN Token rewards. The requirements are the following: the Pool of the Project (for example $XZY/$ADA) must have had a **TVL of minimum 100k ADA** for a period of **at least 1 month**. A Proposal must be published on the Minswap Forum and receive a significant amount of votes (around 50 votes). Please read the following [Forum Post](https://forum.minswap.org/t/we-want-to-open-a-min-farm-proposed-template-for-requests-to-have-a-new-min-farm/1008) for a Template on the Questions to be answered in the proposal. Finally, the [Kitty Farmer Committee](../../min-token/yield-farming/usdmin-point-system/) has the final say on the approval.
3. **MIN Farm only:** this Farming program is for MIN Token only. Requirements are a minimum of **600k ADA TVL and 2 weeks of trading without incentives**. A Proposal must be published on the Minswap Forum and receive a significant amount of votes (around 50 votes). Please read the following [Forum Post](https://forum.minswap.org/t/we-want-to-open-a-min-farm-proposed-template-for-requests-to-have-a-new-min-farm/1008) for a Template on the Questions to be answered in the proposal. Finally, the [Kitty Farmer Committee](../../min-token/yield-farming/usdmin-point-system/) has the final say on the approval.

In case of any questions please head over to our [Discord](https://discord.gg/ZjB8ZBhkbm).
